Right now 20 of the 26 altcoin pairs I screen are trading at or below two standard deviations under their own average volume, and there is not one positive volume spike on the entire board.

That reads like conviction draining out of the market. Before you trade it, check the calendar. It is Sunday.


THE MEASUREMENT

Daily turnover for six liquid pairs over roughly 200 completed days, with each day expressed against that pair's own average so a large cap cannot dominate the result:

  Sunday       77.6%   (n=168)
  Monday      114.2%   (n=168)
  Tuesday     101.8%   (n=168)
  Wednesday   110.2%   (n=168)
  Thursday    113.4%   (n=174)
  Friday      110.6%   (n=174)
  Saturday     72.3%   (n=174)

Weekend average: 74.9% of normal. Weekday average: 110.1%.

Weekend turnover runs about 31.9% below weekday turnover, across 1194 pair-days. Both weekend days sit below average and every weekday sits above it. This is not a subtle effect and it is not a recent one.


WHAT THAT DOES TO A Z-SCORE

A volume z-score compares today against a rolling window that mixes weekdays and weekends together. On a Saturday or Sunday the comparison is structurally unfair: the day is being measured against a baseline that is mostly weekdays, so it prints negative for reasons that have nothing to do with sentiment.

Which means a board-wide sweep of negative readings on a weekend is, in large part, a calendar artifact. Reading it as capitulation is reading the day of the week as a signal.

I am not claiming the alt complex is healthy. I have written all week that participation is thinning, and that still looks true. The narrow point is this: today's reading is not the evidence for it, because today's reading would look roughly like this on a quiet weekend regardless.


HOW TO NOT GET CAUGHT BY THIS

• Compare like with like. Measure a Sunday against other Sundays, not against a blended average.
• Or wait for Monday's completed candle before concluding anything about participation.
• Treat any market-wide extreme that appears on a weekend as suspect until it survives a weekday.

The same discipline applies to the partial-candle trap I keep flagging: today's candle is minutes old, so every figure above uses completed days only.


BIAS: WAIT

Not because the tape is bullish or bearish, but because the single most striking number available today is substantially explained by it being Sunday. A signal that disappears when you control for the calendar was never a signal.

The honest version of this post is short: check what day it is before you call it capitulation.

Educational research, not financial advice. DYOR.

$BTC $ETH $SOL #WriteToEarn #BinanceSquare
